# Exploring deep generative models

###### Lecture 3.1.1

- GANs first came out in 2014.

- Difussion models are the new kid in the block (2019).

## Diffusion models 

### What is this

This model noises data and then reverses it

### Advantages 

- Less tricky to train

### Disadvantages

- It's iterative, so might be slower

- Depends more of the sampling

### Score function

Tells us where the gradient is in the prior x -> noise.

We estimate it to go back from noise to image.

---

# Perspectives on text-to-image models

###### Lecture 3.1.2

The ones that follow the diffusion schemes are super famous nowadays.

## What are they?

Models that take text to create the latent space and generates the images out of this distribution.

There are several approaches. Some of them:

### CLIP

Two networks

1. CLIP

    Takes text and puts it into a latent space.

2. UNCLIP

    Then the same thing is done for images. 

Look for the correspondency of one latent space to the other.

## The dataset

Used a crawler of the internet that looks for images and checks for the *alt* text. When you have it, you *train* the neural networks, when you don't, ask CLIP.

### Legal terms

This is not ready for commercial use. Because there are images of people out there, and if you trained a model with it, you won't be able to remove it. But that's personal data and you're supposed to ask them to delete it from there. So what happens? 

#### Copyright

##### How to use the information

If you take information for research, education, saher to the public, you can use as *Fair-use*.

##### Training ML models on copyrighted data

    Discriminator model

Google trained their models by using the information of the copyrighted data of books to recommend new ones. It is fair use.

##### Autopilot 

    Generator model

They're licenses out there for commercial applications and with or attribution, that copilot recommends/predicts.

So Microsoft, GitHub and OpenAI were sued for this.

## What happens? 

- Is the training process fair use? 

- What happens with the already trained models that have my face in it?

- No copyright for machines. Monetization?

- Proposal: Use these models for good, they're more use cases than images

## Find the model

Hugging face